readme.adoc, before:

= S3 for Kotlin
:source-highlighter: highlightjs

image:https://img.shields.io/badge/jvm-1.8-blue[title="Compatible with JVM 1.8"]
image:https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/veupathdb/lib-s34k[title="Version"]
image:https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-javadoc-brightgreen[link="https://veupathdb.github.io/lib-s34k/javadoc"]
image:https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-dokka-brightgreen[link="https://veupathdb.github.io/lib-s34k/dokka"]


== Usage

S34K defines the base API for a generalized abstraction layer over S3 API
clients and SDKs treating the target S3 store as a remote filesystem.

This project and repository simply defines a standard API and does not provide
any functionality on its own.

Usage of this API is done through specific implementations (such as
https://github.com/VEuPathDB/lib-s34k-minio[S34K-Minio]).

=== Examples

.Getting an `S3Client` instance
[source, kotlin]
----
fun main() {
  val client = S3Api.newClient(S3Config(
    url       = "my-s3-host",
    accessKey = System.getenv("S3_ACCESS_KEY"),
    secretKey = System.getenv("S3_SECRET_KEY"),
  ))
}
----

.Upserting a bucket
[source, kotlin]
----
fun main() {
  val client = S3Api.newClient(...)

  // Simple call
  val bucket1 = client.buckets.createIfNotExists("my-bucket-1")

  // Customized call
  val bucket2 = client.buckets.createIfNotExists {
    bucketName = "my-bucket-2"
    headers.add("x-my-custom-header", "some value")
    tags.add("some-tag", "some tag value")
  }
}
----

.Uploading a file
[source, kotlin]
----
fun main() {
  val client = S3Api.newClient(...)
  val bucket = client.getBucket("my-bucket")

  // Simple call
  bucket.objects.upload("my/object/key", File("/path/to/some/local/file"))

  // Customized call
  bucket.objects.upload {
    path      = "my/object/key2"
    localFile = File("/path/to/some/file")
    partSize  = 26_214_400 // 25MiB
    tags.add(
      "foo"  to "bar",
      "fizz" to "buzz",
    )
  }
}
----


== Operations

The following operations are currently supported as of `v0.1.0`

=== Client

General bucket operations:

* Create bucket
* Create bucket if not exists
* Test bucket existence
* List buckets
* Delete bucket
* Delete bucket recursive


=== Bucket

Bucket specific and general object operations.

.Bucket operations:
* Delete
* Delete recursive
* Delete tags (all)
* Delete tags (targeted)
* Get tags
* Put tags

.Object operations:
* Delete single
* Delete bulk
* Delete tags
* Download
* Existence test
* Get
* Get tags
* List
* Put
* Put tags
* Put 'directory'
* Stat
* Touch
* Upload

=== Object

Object specific operations.

.Operations
* Exists test
* Delete
* Stat
* Get Tags
* Put Tags
* Delete Tags (all)
* Delete Tags (targeted)

== Roadmap

Full Release::
TODOs:
+
--
* [x] Configuration of multi-stage recursive bucket deletion.
* [ ] Configuration of multi-stage targeted object tag deletion.
* [ ] Configuration of multi-stage targeted bucket tag deletion.
* [ ] Configuration of multi-stage recursive directory deletion.
* [x] Recursive directory object deletes
* [ ] Add callback to recursive bucket delete (all phases or just full op?)
* [ ] Rename default region to region (it's a normal property)
* [ ] Include cascading region value fetching (params || bucket || client)
* [ ] Support version ID in operations
--

Commit message:

rename bucket create, complex operation

readme.adoc, after:

= S3 for Kotlin
:source-highlighter: highlightjs

image:https://img.shields.io/badge/jvm-1.8-blue[title="Compatible with JVM 1.8"]
image:https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/veupathdb/lib-s34k[title="Version"]
image:https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-javadoc-brightgreen[link="https://veupathdb.github.io/lib-s34k/javadoc"]
image:https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-dokka-brightgreen[link="https://veupathdb.github.io/lib-s34k/dokka"]

////
TODO: Region should only be optional at the client level and in params, buckets
      and objects have a region attached always.

TODO: create bucket is a complex operation, needs 2 sets of request params
////

== Usage

S34K defines the base API for a generalized abstraction layer over S3 API
clients and SDKs treating the target S3 store as a remote filesystem.

This project and repository simply defines a standard API and does not provide
any functionality on its own.

Usage of this API is done through specific implementations (such as
https://github.com/VEuPathDB/lib-s34k-minio[S34K-Minio]).

=== Examples

.Getting an `S3Client` instance
[source, kotlin]
----
fun main() {
  val client = S3Api.newClient(S3Config(
    url       = "my-s3-host",
    accessKey = System.getenv("S3_ACCESS_KEY"),
    secretKey = System.getenv("S3_SECRET_KEY"),
  ))
}
----

.Upserting a bucket
[source, kotlin]
----
fun main() {
  val client = S3Api.newClient(...)

  // Simple call
  val bucket1 = client.buckets.createIfNotExists("my-bucket-1")

  // Customized call
  val bucket2 = client.buckets.createIfNotExists {
    bucketName = "my-bucket-2"
    headers.add("x-my-custom-header", "some value")
    tags.add("some-tag", "some tag value")
  }
}
----

.Uploading a file
[source, kotlin]
----
fun main() {
  val client = S3Api.newClient(...)
  val bucket = client.getBucket("my-bucket")

  // Simple call
  bucket.objects.upload("my/object/key", File("/path/to/some/local/file"))

  // Customized call
  bucket.objects.upload {
    path      = "my/object/key2"
    localFile = File("/path/to/some/file")
    partSize  = 26_214_400 // 25MiB
    tags.add(
      "foo"  to "bar",
      "fizz" to "buzz",
    )
  }
}
----


== Operations

The following operations are currently supported as of `v0.1.0`

=== Client

General bucket operations:

* Create bucket
* Create bucket if not exists
* Test bucket existence
* List buckets
* Delete bucket
* Delete bucket recursive


=== Bucket

Bucket specific and general object operations.

.Bucket operations:
* Delete
* Delete recursive
* Delete tags (all)
* Delete tags (targeted)
* Get tags
* Put tags

.Object operations:
* Delete single
* Delete bulk
* Delete tags
* Download
* Existence test
* Get
* Get tags
* List
* Put
* Put tags
* Put 'directory'
* Stat
* Touch
* Upload

=== Object

Object specific operations.

.Operations
* Exists test
* Delete
* Stat
* Get Tags
* Put Tags
* Delete Tags (all)
* Delete Tags (targeted)

== Roadmap

Full Release::
TODOs:
+
--
* [x] Configuration of multi-stage recursive bucket deletion.
* [ ] Configuration of multi-stage targeted object tag deletion.
* [ ] Configuration of multi-stage targeted bucket tag deletion.
* [ ] Configuration of multi-stage recursive directory deletion.
* [x] Recursive directory object deletes
* [ ] Add callback to recursive bucket delete (all phases or just full op?)
* [ ] Rename default region to region (it's a normal property)
* [ ] Include cascading region value fetching (params || bucket || client)
* [ ] Support version ID in operations
--
